README.md, before:

# Deep Filesystem Tree MCP

[![smithery badge](https://smithery.ai/badge/deep-filesystem-tree-mcp)](https://smithery.ai/server/deep-filesystem-tree-mcp)

A Model Context Protocol (MCP) implementation that provides deep filesystem tree visualization and manipulation capabilities through Cursor IDE. This tool enables efficient navigation and management of complex directory structures, enhancing development workflows with AI-powered file system operations.

<a href="https://glama.ai/mcp/servers/deep-fs-tree"><img width="380" height="200" src="https://glama.ai/mcp/servers/deep-fs-tree/badge" alt="Deep Filesystem Tree MCP server" /></a>

## Quick Start

### Installing via Smithery

To install Deep Filesystem Tree MCP automatically via [Smithery](https://smithery.ai/server/deep-filesystem-tree-mcp):

```bash
npx -y @smithery/cli install deep-filesystem-tree-mcp --client claude
```

### Installing Manually

1. **Prerequisites**

   - [Bun](https://bun.sh) runtime

2. **Installation**

   ```bash
   # Install globally
   bun install -g deep-filesystem-tree-mcp

   # Or install locally
   git clone https://github.com/andredezzy/deep-filesystem-tree-mcp.git
   cd deep-filesystem-tree-mcp
   bun install
   ```

3. **Configuration**

   - Create a `.env` file in your project root:
     ```bash
     # Environment configuration
     DEFAULT_WORKSPACE_PATH=/path/to/your/workspaces
     ```

4. **Add to Claude's MCP Configuration**
   Add the following to your Claude configuration:

   ```json
   {
     "name": "deep-filesystem-tree",
     "type": "mcp",
     "config": {
       "server": "https://glama.ai/mcp/servers/deep-fs-tree",
       "capabilities": ["filesystem_tree", "file_operations"]
     }
   }
   ```

5. **Start the Server**

   ```bash
   # If installed globally
   deep-filesystem-tree-mcp

   # If installed locally
   bun start
   ```

## Features

- Deep filesystem tree visualization
- Intelligent file and directory operations
- Context-aware file system navigation
- Advanced search and filtering capabilities
- Real-time file system monitoring

## Detailed Setup

### Local Development Setup

1. Clone and install:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/andredezzy/deep-filesystem-tree-mcp.git
   cd deep-filesystem-tree-mcp
   bun install
   ```

2. Create environment config:

   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

   Edit `.env` and set your workspace path:

   ```bash
   DEFAULT_WORKSPACE_PATH=/Users/yourusername/Documents/workspaces
   ```

3. Build and run:

   ```bash
   # Development mode with hot reload
   bun dev

   # Production mode
   bun build
   bun start
   ```

### Troubleshooting

1. **Tree Visualization Issues**

   - Ensure proper file permissions
   - Check workspace path configuration
   - Verify file system event listeners are active

2. **Permission Issues**

   - Run with appropriate user permissions
   - Check file system access rights
   - Verify workspace directory permissions

3. **Runtime Issues**
   - Make sure Bun is installed and up to date:
     ```bash
     curl -fsSL https://bun.sh/install | bash
     bun upgrade
     ```

## Project Structure

```
deep-filesystem-tree-mcp/
├── src/              # Source code
│   └── index.ts      # Main application entry point
├── .vscode/          # VS Code configuration
├── build/            # Compiled output
├── node_modules/     # Dependencies
├── .gitignore        # Git ignore rules
├── bun.lock          # Bun lock file
├── eslint.config.js  # ESLint configuration
├── index.ts          # Root entry point
├── package.json      # Project configuration and dependencies
├── smithery.yaml     # Smithery configuration
└── tsconfig.json     # TypeScript configuration
```

## Scripts

- `bun build` - Build the project
- `bun start` - Run production server
- `bun dev` - Start development server with hot-reload

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit changes (`git commit -m 'Add feature'`)
4. Push to branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details.

## Support

For support:

- Open an issue in the GitHub repository
- Join our [Discord community](https://discord.gg/deep-filesystem-tree)
- Check the [FAQ](https://github.com/andredezzy/deep-filesystem-tree-mcp/wiki/FAQ)

Commit message:

Update README to clarify compatibility with MCP-enabled clients and AI assistants

README.md, after:

# Deep Filesystem Tree MCP

[![smithery badge](https://smithery.ai/badge/deep-filesystem-tree-mcp)](https://smithery.ai/server/deep-filesystem-tree-mcp)

A Model Context Protocol (MCP) implementation that provides deep filesystem tree visualization and manipulation capabilities. This tool enables efficient navigation and management of complex directory structures, enhancing development workflows with AI-powered file system operations. Compatible with any MCP-enabled client or AI assistant.

<a href="https://glama.ai/mcp/servers/deep-fs-tree"><img width="380" height="200" src="https://glama.ai/mcp/servers/deep-fs-tree/badge" alt="Deep Filesystem Tree MCP server" /></a>

## Quick Start

### Installing via Smithery

To install Deep Filesystem Tree MCP automatically via [Smithery](https://smithery.ai/server/deep-filesystem-tree-mcp):

```bash
npx -y @smithery/cli install deep-filesystem-tree-mcp --client claude
```

### Installing Manually

1. **Prerequisites**

   - [Bun](https://bun.sh) runtime

2. **Installation**

   ```bash
   # Install globally
   bun install -g deep-filesystem-tree-mcp

   # Or install locally
   git clone https://github.com/andredezzy/deep-filesystem-tree-mcp.git
   cd deep-filesystem-tree-mcp
   bun install
   ```

3. **Configuration**

   - Create a `.env` file in your project root:
     ```bash
     # Environment configuration
     DEFAULT_WORKSPACE_PATH=/path/to/your/workspaces
     ```

4. **Add to Claude's MCP Configuration**
   Add the following to your Claude configuration:

   ```json
   {
     "name": "deep-filesystem-tree",
     "type": "mcp",
     "config": {
       "server": "https://glama.ai/mcp/servers/deep-fs-tree",
       "capabilities": ["filesystem_tree", "file_operations"]
     }
   }
   ```

5. **Start the Server**

   ```bash
   # If installed globally
   deep-filesystem-tree-mcp

   # If installed locally
   bun start
   ```

## Features

- Deep filesystem tree visualization
- Intelligent file and directory operations
- Context-aware file system navigation
- Advanced search and filtering capabilities
- Real-time file system monitoring

## Detailed Setup

### Local Development Setup

1. Clone and install:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/andredezzy/deep-filesystem-tree-mcp.git
   cd deep-filesystem-tree-mcp
   bun install
   ```

2. Create environment config:

   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

   Edit `.env` and set your workspace path:

   ```bash
   DEFAULT_WORKSPACE_PATH=/Users/yourusername/Documents/workspaces
   ```

3. Build and run:

   ```bash
   # Development mode with hot reload
   bun dev

   # Production mode
   bun build
   bun start
   ```

### Troubleshooting

1. **Tree Visualization Issues**

   - Ensure proper file permissions
   - Check workspace path configuration
   - Verify file system event listeners are active

2. **Permission Issues**

   - Run with appropriate user permissions
   - Check file system access rights
   - Verify workspace directory permissions

3. **Runtime Issues**
   - Make sure Bun is installed and up to date:
     ```bash
     curl -fsSL https://bun.sh/install | bash
     bun upgrade
     ```

## Project Structure

```
deep-filesystem-tree-mcp/
├── src/              # Source code
│   └── index.ts      # Main application entry point
├── .vscode/          # VS Code configuration
├── build/            # Compiled output
├── node_modules/     # Dependencies
├── .gitignore        # Git ignore rules
├── bun.lock          # Bun lock file
├── eslint.config.js  # ESLint configuration
├── index.ts          # Root entry point
├── package.json      # Project configuration and dependencies
├── smithery.yaml     # Smithery configuration
└── tsconfig.json     # TypeScript configuration
```

## Scripts

- `bun build` - Build the project
- `bun start` - Run production server
- `bun dev` - Start development server with hot-reload

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit changes (`git commit -m 'Add feature'`)
4. Push to branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details.

## Support

For support:

- Open an issue in the GitHub repository
- Join our [Discord community](https://discord.gg/deep-filesystem-tree)
- Check the [FAQ](https://github.com/andredezzy/deep-filesystem-tree-mcp/wiki/FAQ)
